What's in a SharePoint site
Organizations use SharePoint to create websites. In Microsoft 365, you can create a site from the SharePoint start page. You also get a SharePoint team site whenever you create a Microsoft 365 group in Outlook Online or Microsoft 365. If you're in SharePoint Server, you can create a team or a number of other types of sites. You can use the sites as a secure place to store, organize, share, and access information from any device. All you need is a web browser, such as Microsoft Edge, Internet Explorer, Google Chrome, or Mozilla Firefox.

Add a list or library to your team site:
To add a list or library to SharePoint in Microsoft 365, select + New from within a site, and then pick List or Library from the list.

Team sites
Modern team sites are more collaborative than ever. They use Microsoft 365 Groups for a simpler permissions model. Team sites also come pre-populated with modern news, quick links, and and site activity.

Microsoft 365 Groups
One of the biggest differences between classic and modern team sites is that modern teams sites are connected to Microsoft 365 groups. Groups let you choose a set of people that you wish to collaborate with and easily set up a collection of resources for those people to share; resources like a shared Outlook inbox, shared calendar or a document library for collaborating on files. You don’t have to worry about manually assigning permissions to all those resources because adding members to the group automatically gives them the permissions they need to the tools your group provides. Microsoft 365 Groups are different from SharePoint groups in that they span across multiple Microsoft 365 resources, are more flexible, and are easier to work with.

Communication sites
A communication site is a great place to communicate information out to others. You can share news, reports, statuses, and other information in a visually compelling format. The purpose of a communication site is similar to the purpose of classic publishing sites, but there are many differences.

Pages and web parts
Modern pages provide a fast, easy way to build responsive pages using the functionality of modern web parts. Pages are similar to classic web part pages and publishing pages, but are less structured and easier to create. To learn more about modern pages, see Add a page to a site. If you are not able to create a modern page, your administrator may have turned off the ability to do so.

Hub sites
Hub sites are a great way to tie several sites together using the same branding and navigation. Unlike site collections, hub sites have a flat, rather than hierarchical, structure. This allows them to be more flexible than classic site collections.

Differences between hub sites and site collections
Site collections are hierarchical and highly structured. Hub sites have a flat structure, and are more flexible in terms of adding and removing sites from the hub. Unlike site collections, sites associated with a hub site can automatically adopt the same branding and theme as the hub site. Associated sites also get common navigation and users can search across all associated sites.

Microsoft Power Automate
SharePoint workflows and Microsoft Power Automate are both designed to automate business processes, like routing documents for approval. With Microsoft Power Automate, it's easier than before to automate processes without extensive developer resources. To learn about Power Automate, see the Microsoft Power Automate documentation.

Differences between Microsoft Power Automate and SharePoint workflow
Microsoft Power Automate is integrated into the SharePoint lists and library modern experience by default. Just select Power Automate in the toolbar of your list or library. SharePoint workflow, on the other hand, is created in SharePoint Designer or Visual Studio.
Power Automate allows for integration across Microsoft 365, including Outlook, Microsoft Teams and more. You can also automate actions with third-party services like DropBox and Twitter.

Search
Modern search is personal and the results you see are different from what other people see, even when you search for the same words. 

List
A list is a collection of data that you can share with your team members and people who you've provided access to. You'll find a number of ready-to-use list templates to provide a good starting point for organizing list items.

Create a list
You can create a new list directly from the Lists app in Microsoft 365 by selecting +New list. (To get to the Lists app, at the top of any page, select the Microsoft 365 app launcher  App launcher button, select More apps, and then select Lists.) 

What is a document library?
A document library provides a secure place to store files where you and your co-workers can find them easily, work on them together, and access them from any device at any time. For example, you can use a document library on a site in SharePoint to store all files related to a specific project or a specific client. Adding files or moving files between folders is as easy as dragging and dropping them from one location to another.
The default site in SharePoint and SharePoint Server 2019 includes a document library and one is created automatically when you create a new site.

Plan Category	Microsoft 365 Business (Basic, Standard, Premium) Teams Essentials, (MSA & Microsoft Entra ID)6	Microsoft 365 Enterprise (E3, E5, A3, A5, G3, G5)	Office 365 (E1, E3, E5, A1, A3, A5, G1, G3, G5)	Microsoft 365 F1/F3, Office 365 F3	SharePoint Plan 1 or 2
Included in Microsoft 365/Office 365	Yes	Yes	Yes	Yes	No
Standalone Option	No	No	No	No	Yes
Total storage per organization1,2,4,7,8	1 TB + 10GB per license purchased3	1 TB + 10GB per license purchased3	1 TB + 10GB per license purchased3	1TB3	1 TB + 10GB per license purchased3
Max storage per site (site collection)	25 TB	25 TB	25 TB	25 TB	25 TB
Sites (site collection) per organization	2 million5	2 million5	2 million5	2 million5	2 million5
Number of licensed users	Up to 300
Designed for SMB	1-500,0005
Enterprise-grade features	1-500,0005
Legacy plans	1-500,0005
Frontline workers	1-500,0005
Standalone SharePoint Online plans
Extra storage	1 GB3
Increments per tenant	1GB3	1GB3	1GB3	1GB3

View the total and available storage space for your organization
Go to Active sites in the SharePoint admin center, and sign in with an account that has admin permissions for your organization.
In the upper right of the page, see the amount of storage available and the total storage for your subscription. (If your organization has configured Multi-Geo in Microsoft 365, you can point to the bar to see the amount of storage used in the current geo location and all other geo locations.)
Note: The maximum value you can enter is 25600 GB, although this may be more space than your organization has.

Lists and libraries
2,000 lists and libraries combined per site collection.
Subsites
2,000 per site (site collection). We recommend creating sites and organizing them into hubs instead of creating subsites. If you do use subsites, we recommend limiting their number (especially on heavily trafficked sites). In addition, all navigation types (site, hub, global, and footer) are limited to 500 child links at each level. Extra nodes added after the limit has been reached will receive an error.

Note: Your organization is limited to 2,000 hub sites. You might not need a hub site for every function and it's important to do some planning before you create hubs.
Users
2 million per site collection.
 Note: There's no distinct limit to the number of guests you can invite to SharePoint sites.

SharePoint groups
A user can belong to 5,000 groups per site (site collection), and each group can have up to 5,000 users. You can have up to 10,000 groups per site (site collection).

Versions
50,000 major versions and 511 minor versions.

Default SharePoint groups:
Title-Default permission level-Used for
Owner-Full control-People who must be able to manage site permissions, settings, and appearance.
Member-Edit and contribute-People who must be able to edit site content. Permission level depends on the site template that was used to create the site.
Visitor-Read only-People who must be able to see site content, but not edit it.

Site owner-Full control-In addition to everything a Site member can do, owners can also:
Change the site theme,
Change navigation layout
Change the site logo
Add or remove site owners
Edit site member settings
Add or remove site visitors
Edit site settings
Delete the subsite
Add a Microsoft 365 group
Associate the site to a hub

Site member-Edit and contribute-Add, edit, and delete lists
Add, edit, and delete document libraries
Add or remove site members
Add, edit, and remove documents
Add, edit, and delete a page
Add, edit, delete a news post
Add, edit, and delete page sections
Add, edit, and delete web parts
Add, edit, and delete site navigation
Create or delete page templates
View site usage metrics

Site visitor-Read only-View content

Change the logo
One way you can customize your SharePoint site is by changing the site logo.
Upload your own site logo under Display by navigating to Settings > Change the look > Header.

Edit the navigation
You can add or remove links on your site navigation.
Select Edit at the bottom of your navigation, then add links by selecting the space in-between existing links. Make further edits by selecting the ellipsis next to an existing link to adjust positioning, make sub links, edit, or remove.

When you create a new team or private channel in Microsoft Teams, a team site in SharePoint gets automatically created.
If the Hub site association option is greyed out or no sites are listed there, you might not have permission to associate sites with a hub site or your organization might not be using hub sites.

Invite people to your SharePoint team site:
To give people access to your site, you can either add members to the Microsoft 365 group associated with the site, or you can share the site with others without adding them to a Microsoft 365 group. For more information on site permissions, see Understanding permission levels in SharePoint.
Note: If you're a site owner, you will see a link for Advanced permission settings where you can configure additional SharePoint permission settings.

Change site permissions for individuals:
To change the permission level for an individual or group, selectthe down arrow next to the SharePoint permission level for that person or group and select Full control to add them to the Site owners group, or select Read to add them to the Site visitors group.

Note: If a member is removed who was part of a Microsoft 365 group, but was also added using Share site only, they will still retain their permissions as an individual.
Note: Depending on settings set by your administrator, you may have different default settings. For example, this button could say People in <Your Organization> can edit.

Anyone - gives access to anyone who receives this link, whether you send it directly or someone forwards it. This can include people outside your organization. We recommend avoiding this option unless absolutely necessary.
People in <Your Organization> with the link - gives anyone in your organization who has the link access to the file, whether they receive it directly from you or forwarded from someone else.
People with existing access - can be used by people who already have access to the document or folder. It does not change any permissions and it doesn't share the link. Use this if you just want to send a link to somebody who already has access. 
People you choose - gives access only to the people you specify, although other people may already have access. If people forward the sharing invitation, only people who already have access to the item will be able to use the link.
Note: To track access and ensure security, you can only share with someone who is in your organization or has a Microsoft Account.

Can edit lets people who are signed in with a Microsoft Account edit the files or folders they have access to. If you're sharing a folder, people with Edit permissions can copy, move, edit, rename, share, and delete anything in the folder they have access to.
Notes: Can edit is turned on by default.Some links have limited options and are only anonymous links.

Can review limits people to leaving comments and making suggestions on the file.
Notes: Only Word documents have this permission option.If someone already has editing permissions for the document, selecting Can review won't prevent them from making edits. For them, the document will open in edit mode.

Can view means that people can view, copy, or download your items without signing in. They can also forward the link to other people. However, they cannot make changes to the version on your SharePoint. 

Can't download prevents people from downloading the files or folders they have access to. 

Set expiration date lets you set a date for the link to expire. After the date you set, the link won't work anymore and you will need to create a new link for users requiring access to your file or folder. Set expiration date is only on anonymous links.
Note: Set expiration date is only available if it is an anyone link.

Set password lets you set a password to access the file. When a user clicks the link, they will be prompted to enter a password before they can access the file. You'll need to provide this password separately to anyone you want to share the file with. Set password date is only on anonymous links.
Note:  Set password date is only available if it is an anyone link.​​​​​​​
